in our last video in the sequence of
videos I mentioned my grandmother's
insane patterns of jealousy and I didn't
really get to mention the fact that her
son my father's brother so my uncle he
in effect destroyed his first marriage
because of his problems with jealousy so
he got married fairly young I think he
was 20 years old or something like that
to a pretty blonde woman and in reality
things were going well but he imagined
that she was because she was beautiful
other men were going to seduce her and
that she was gonna go out on him and
even though she never did anything of
the sort his problems with jealousy and
the way he behaved and in dealing with
his feelings of jealousy destroyed their
marriage and they got divorced and he's
had a pretty sad life since then to be
honest she's he's a really troubled
person and I think there is a certain
extent to which some of these patterns
of behavior are maybe just based off of
the family dynamics that have gone on
through generations or potentially there
is some genetic component to it I don't
know so but the point is we really can't
change what we're exposed to as children
but we can change how we behave how we
react to what we see we can change our
abilities as the life goes on and the
number one thing is to be aware of what
the problems actually are be aware of
what it is that you're doing to somebody
else and I think in a lot of people this
is the hardest part and even me part of
what I was saying in our in the last
video is that this is a selfish topic
and I can be a very selfish person I
mean that is the main problem with this
the main problem is not thinking of
the other person in a relationship not
thinking of another person in general
because this whole problem is because
I'm not thinking of the other person not
thinking of the other person's life what
they've been through not thinking that
everyone has been through struggles that
are individual to what you go through in
life school there agree with you yeah
but I think exactly what that's
paradoxical is you're not thinking of
the other person sympathetically you're
not thinking of them as a real person
mm-hmm but you are obsessing over them
yeah you mean you are you are in a sense
thinking about them that's what I think
is parallel and I think that's even
truth how you think about me all the
time yeah yeah you think of me in a
really strange dehumanized way it's true
yeah I don't think of you as and yeah I
did want to mention that in this video
in particular as I was walking home I
was thinking of what I wanted to say in
this video we're just in this sequence
of you and me talking about this this
these problems is that I think a lot of
people misinterpret the content of your
channel as being just criticism of other
people yeah and of course some of your
channel is joking around and satire I
mean you mentioned this that that some
of your some of your videos are just
about being right humorous but a lot of
them are really about helping other
people and people have a hard time
interpreting what you really believe and
what I
I believe is trying to help other people
and help the vegan movement or whatever
can issue that you you are concerned
about whether it's First Nations whether
it's about language learning whether
it's about humanitarian work video was
directly responding to someone who was
gonna commit suicide right that yeah I
know sometimes it's like totally
intellectual people ask me for advice
for what what should they major in
University in what should they do for
their research for the thesis
sometimes it is that dry yeah but that
the opposite extremes it's completely
emotional what's some yeah some of them
are completely about an individual like
one person you know one person's
experience and and I know that that is
what motivates you in life is to and
that's why I find it I find you so
appealing because I really know that you
do think of other people and you do
think of other people's perspectives and
what they've been through
and I mean maybe that's the secret that
that's why you don't feel jealousy is
because you imagine what other people
have been through and you don't and you
don't feel like I want that or like what
you know I yeah I think it's actually
fun because it relates to snails from
talking whether they haven't had time to
make a video about this but relating to
authority figures this is also an issue
for you yeah it's not considered
jealousy but maybe on a deep level in
terms of the course thoughts it's it is
actually similar um but you know
something I said on this channel many
times was for me a breakthrough in life
was was learning to regard all authority
as mirror authorship like you know
here's this book everyone respects ok
well this book was the work of one man
yeah do you think sympathetically about
the process of the creation of knowledge
or whatever you want to say that
research that went into it or you know
some books is just someone reading their
thoughts and feelings a lot of
philosophies like that so you know not a
lot of religion is almost interactive
like that it's one guy in a cave or
anything opponents hallucinations or
something you know so you know of really
humanizing the rule of the author then
relating to Authority that way and it's
literally true that extends to when I'm
being interrogated by Canadian
government officials chapping a couple
weeks ago and I'm able to kind of sit
there and smile and even laugh through
it you know it's not ego mania on my
part I understand that people would say
that way but you know I look at these
people as people to me there are normal
people you know I'm humanizing them in
that same way and I think that's true if
I look at an Instagram model or a look
at whatever a beautiful person on
Instagram you know I don't I don't
relate to them as an idol or as an
authority
you know I kind of see the humanity in
the human process behind it and I even
you know I'm aware of even if I'm not
constantly I'm aware of how awful it
would be to have my career and my income
rely on maintaining myself in that kind
of peak physical condition and stuff but
just to give an example of the kind of
stuff yes absolutely if I see someone's
excellent playing the guitar you know I
I know I don't want to spend hundreds of
hours practicing the guitar and so on
you know for me for me that's it's a
check to jealousy but it also puts a
limit on how much I could be intimidated
by an authority figure I thought that
was interesting when you mentioned in
one of the videos that you don't think
I'm the best musician and that did not
bother me at all and I think it could be
because I've had so many hours of my
life dedicated to music dedicated to
practicing violin yeah I'm not and I'm
not good I've spent many hours and I'm
not good you know especially now because
I've been out of practice but you know
and I'm about to face that as I get back
into playing music realizing how much
I've lost and how much is going to be
gained how much time it's going to be
required in order to get back to the
level that I was at I know that shows
also it's not strictly about sex because
I couldn't seduced by someone because
they were a better musician than you I
could be seen just by someone's they
were great singer or great guitar a
living you mister happens happens all
the time yeah yeah no and I don't think
it is all about sex it's not um yeah so
anyway that wasn't on my yeah so in in
tandem with that is that actually
imagining somebody else's life really
sympathizing with them is being happy
for somebody else which you've mentioned
it that I'm not I'm not good at that
and I have to reflect on that and say
like what is wrong with with me and what
is wrong with what led to me being in
this position and you know I try to
think of
my parents ever genuinely being happy
for someone else and right I've spent
enough time with your parents to know
yeah you didn't grow up in that kind of
household or culture or micro culture
they're not they're not positive with
other people yeah it's really life as a
competition for them in every way and I
saw that having a destructive effect on
them so I don't think they were happy
for me
so I normally would never watch a game
show on TV when I watched a TV game show
Jeopardy with them I knew the answers to
a lot more questions that they were not
happy for me yeah no that's not just
simple right not just simple example but
that said that doesn't even like a
conscious level like I think consciously
they're happy that their daughter is
worth with someone who's intelligent
yeah but you know no one level of
feeling irrational right it is someone
else didn't want because they didn't
encourage me of course to excel in
school and to excel and playing music
and for them it was a source of joy of
pride and in fact I was fighting for
that as I was growing up to try to
impress them and to try to you know
compete with others and be better than
other people that was a real driving
force in and how I grew up and I have to
recognize that that's not something that
is going to contribute to having
positive relations with other people you
can you can have friendly competition
with people and you know they can it
doesn't have to be a source of stress or
anger yeah I know what this is look
you're dealing with it at 26 I do think
there are people deal with it at 36 and
so on no no I mean sadly people grow up
on the road
yeah yeah so yeah this is a great video
that's a huge thing just actually being
happy for other people yeah and even in
the context of sexual relationships you
know that is the number one thing that
like when you were first talking to me
about the concept of an open
relationship I didn't think of it in
terms of like you being happy like
making helping you have a
happy life or like bringing joy into
your life which sex does I mean it's
yeah I'm not saying it always they're
gonna be really weird messed up sexual
you know circumstances but for you that
is a source of joy like the act for you
of showing that like you know that
you're good at having sex you know like
that's something that is a source of
pride for you and that's like I don't
know why I couldn't see it in that way
but yeah like when you were first
introducing the topic to me I really
just thought of it as like oh he's um I
don't know like why can't he be
satisfied with just me and that that
really wasn't the point the point is to
like make both of us happy
anyway you remember too though I mean
you know I don't actually think of it in
terms of happiness disagreed with what
you're saying
but you know I wouldn't express that in
those terms I would approach I would say
something similar but using a very
different train of thought yeah no cab
you Larry but you know we've had some
comments lately saying that you use you
speak the same value you really don't
every night but you remember him one of
the main things I said to you was look
so at that time I was 37 or something
whatever it was yeah I was like look I'm
37 it actually is not a big deal for me
to be monogamous for my life but
actually the person here who really
stands to lose is you like like actually
for you to never sleep with anyone else
the rest of your life that's actually
really unfair and we're going into this
as unequals
look I have more experience and more
diversity of experience whatever so like
you know don't kid yourself so but I
just say that wasn't really about I mean
look you know okay ultimately gives
everything about happiness did I put on
this shirt this morning to be happy you
know you can't express things in terms
of happiness but you know I remember you
know and for you that was really alien
was thinking about you know monogamy
what I'm gonna say in terms of sacrifice
look you're the one making the sacrifice
here not me I'm already old and ugly
no I already have you know more
diversity of experience but like you
know really think through what that
would mean you know for you and yeah
yeah yeah exactly
and you even at the start you were
thinking of like my perspective on it
and I wasn't thinking of your
perspective on it and yeah I mean it's
not I was just I was just gonna say like
I mean I wish there was a better word
for it I'm not saying like happiness but
like I really like your concept it's
it's that you know part of human
relations sex is about finding a
community making a community or like
finding people who are going to be your
tribe and this will visit you in the
hospital when you're sick people who
will care if you're sick and say that
someone's your friend
yeah they show up if you are in the
hospital so chair know from most of us
only people who are in love with us
would do that for most only people who
were in love with us or out of some like
feeling of obligation because they're
your family members because their blood
line is the same as you you have to show
up in our culture especially it's it's
real now yeah exactly and I mean to me I
hadn't thought of it that way especially
like it since spending time taking care
of your daughter
how important it is to have other people
who are helping you raise children and
if I mean that is a little like I I find
it like to bring right so like I'm not
saying happiness but I'm just saying
like contentedness to actually teach a
trial you know like a child there's a
lot of struggling with raising children
but it's also like something that's
really enriching to somebody's life if
you have help if you have other people
helping you if you do by yourself and
you're 100 percent only focused on you
know it's really tough so you know
jealousy is not just about sex it's also
about intellectual endeavors and people
buying expensive cars no thanks yeah you
know we're not so much interested here
but I just mentioned you know I do have
a lot of experience with intellectual
friendships and intellectual colleagues
and it's really sad that you know
through like a purely intellectual
pursuit of something like linguistics or
you know Buddhist history
you don't meet people when you don't
make friendships of a type where you'd
help each other like admittedly helping
someone raise their kid high standard
but yeah just helping them get their
laundry from the dry cleaner
yeah actually like like a helpful caring
friendship where you actually help each
other you know you you almost never get
there through intellectual colleagues
and friendships in our culture which is
of course very sad yeah so you say
that's another thing where it puts all
the weight of that really just on the
one person who's in love with you yeah
so you've got two people well that's you
know that's exponentially more so yeah
yeah I think that's part of the
bleakness yeah right I mean you've said
to me that people only contact your
women members of the opposite sex will
probably usually only contact you one if
they like think you're attractive even
if it's for like even it's like you know
they like you even if they say it's for
intellectual reasons it's because they
like you and I mean for me that was like
you I have to admit that's true I mean
like even when I first got in contact
with you and it wasn't sexually at all
yeah like it's overtly sexual okay so
but yeah I mean that were intellectual
reasons for somebody getting and getting
in contact with you it's usually not
people wanting to be your friend not
wanting to yeah that's yes yeah yeah
because you're saying things very
similar to what I'd say but they're
still kind of shocking and new for me to
hear that's true yeah friendship is kind
of more scarce yeah so and of course I
mean I I really enjoy the act of sex so
it's like it seems like it would be
something that I would be open to
realizing that it's not it doesn't have
to just be you and me for the rest of
our lives you know like that's how that
like this situation is with most people
and it's like yeah don't you the same
person over it
and I love it I mean I love you yeah
I'll give it ten years it's our second
anniversary coming up yeah you know and
again like I think well I think that's
even in kind of economics more than
political philosophy the idea that you
know you can be deprived of something
without even knowing that you're being
deprived of it like actually a good
example is educational opportunities oh
you didn't know there was a scholarship
so you could become a dentist and now
instead like you know for a lot of
people people being ignorant up or not
being informed of opportunities that
other people were informed of or
something it shapes your life and in a
powerful way but yeah I know that that's
the things that you don't suffer
directly from being deprived of those
things but nevertheless ins is a real
measurable so you never miss to that all
right it's true it's true it's all true
okay so uh
all right this may not be following the
sequence then I initially didn't
intended but yeah you know I really
liked what you what you've said lately
about how can somebody enjoy gardening
when their house is on fire
and somebody would walk by their
neighbor when and say hey your house is
on fire I really think the solution is
to actively every day like make the
effort to imagine someone else's
perspective and it's not I'm like it's
not easy and well look just put it in a
preference you know vegan gains kept
sending the hate mail yeah insulting me
saying like oh you're too busy helping
Syrian refugees and stuff yeah I'm only
since then actually had a you you heard
had a long Skype call with that guy who
is Serbian that's right it it was just I
didn't do today but like you see how
threatening that is to him right as
opposed to having you know an attitude
towards life in the world was like look
I'm aware you know somebody's house is
on fire or you know yeah you know
something it really puts your pleasures
in life whether they're petty or
profound
in a very different frame of reference
it puts the number of years you have
left on this earth in a very different
perspective it's true and you can see
vegan gains is rattled by that words
from yes when you first were recording
that what I thought of is I guess a
trope that I've seen since I was young
that you know think of walking a mile
and like a homeless person shoes for me
I think it just because I've thought
about it more that is less alien than
actually thinking of like beautiful
people who you walk by in the street
like actually thinking of walking in a
mile and I know what I think that's
really a good point is that it's
actually very easy to imagine
deprivation yeah like it's easy to
imagine oh it's you imagine not having a
sandwich when you know what it's like to
have a sandwich but it's very hard to
imagine even if you're trying to
sympathize with privilege and power and
having options and opportunities you
can't imagine
yeah and in a sense I mean it spent so
much time inside elite PhD programs that
I really know what I'm missing
I know hope you know I know a little I'm
missing what everyone said I'm not you
know I'm not you're complaining but for
most people you know I remember one kid
and actually his parents were literally
Syrian refugees complete coincidence no
I just knew him as a friend I didn't
know for that reason his parents were
Syrian refugees of Kim Canada he was
basically completely raised in Canada
he'd gone back to visit but you know in
the way he talked about University yeah
just surreal to me like I was in
universities am i talking this guy it's
like you know you really think it's the
Playboy Mansion and like even the
Playboy Mansion is not a Playboy Mansion
like you know I mean like representation
of the Playboy Mansion you know in a
movie is obviously like a candy-coated
ridiculous it's like wow what are you
you you really have no idea how
depressing it is the actual process of
going to the bookstore and having this
little list and finding the book going
to let me say like you you don't what's
your no exactly looks like just how
lonely and isolated and depressing it is
and you think of this as this wonderful
educational opportunity so you say he
can't imagine you know when I was having
the conversation with them
that that's a really good point that
maybe it's harder to relate to someone
sympathetically or not who's beautiful
wealthy yeah how do you relate to Kim
Kardashian or whatever you know what cuz
that that's something you can't know
whereas you know what it's like to go
hungry for a day yeah right right yeah
and for you like my my interactions with
you
why like I think of you as like a genius
you know and I think you you are you are
like it to me like a handsome genius and
I know you've struggled in life but no
like an eye and I think that's amazing
like even that you like you basically
like inflicted this struggle on yourself
too because I can think of like other
ways with your life how your life could
have panned out differently of course
like you know you had the family
situation wasn't conducive to you being
involved in the family business but you
know most people if they have like a
family business they're like okay well
this is an easy career this is already
set up for me I'm just gonna go into it
but no you decided to do something
totally different and very the for
ethical reasons for ethical reason it's
great yeah and I think that's you know
like to me like I see you as morally
upright I see you as like so intelligent
and like which is that right so the
audience who sees this video is gonna
regard me as a complete scumbag some
people but you know so maybe that's
partly why like when we have these
differences or like when you say
something that like makes like I feel
insecure about being stupid compared to
you um maybe that's why I'm like not I'm
not thinking of your perspective and I'm
not like imagining myself as you in this
situation when I really need to be
thinking of you were side to like yeah
and maybe it's because I was such a high
opinion it's you know it's on on that if
that is the case that somebody that I
you know value so much I can treat like
such crap anyway um part of what you
said when you were telling me about like
how you were how are you feeling about
this situation right now in our
relationship is how when I it like maybe
for you it's not even necessarily that
on the jealous type but it's how I react
it's how I behave when I'm in this
jealous rage you know you think how can
I be with somebody so stupid how can I
be with somebody who's saying these
things when I don't deserve this
there's no reason for me to put up with
this and you're totally right there's
there's no excuse for my behavior
important just how all the things I say
they are really stupid like genuinely
really stupid huh she means basically
once she gets angry and just starts
screaming things at me to hurt me yeah
yes right but if you give morning's that
we're not gonna give a lot of examples
your buddy Mike remember recently you
got anger me and you you screamed at the
top of your lungs that you didn't care
if you never saw me again you didn't
care if you never send my daughter again
but you don't mean it I'm you know
whatever once you're sober I mean it's a
horrifying if we recorded that back to
you I mean being horrifying for you but
I mean you you you just get angry and
you'll kind of say anything to that my
feelings once you're once you're upset
and you know yeah sometimes you're upset
for remarkably trivial reasons when you
go into this kind of state yes just so
that I just give one example setting
stones no it's so true I mean yeah it's
that's that's probably one of the worst
I ever everything I've said is most of
European literature is about people like
you psychologically most of European
literature is addressed to people who
struggle with passion versus reason yeah
and you can see I'm not like that for me
passion and reason really work together
you know what I mean like I'm passionate
about something so I research it and I'm
like even more rational about things I'm
passionate about right also sure of my
sex life really so when you think about
it
um you know but it's funny actually most
European literature is about characters
like you and that's always been a bit
alien to me that always seemed a bit
artificial no no I think you probably
are people you know what we're like your
ability to think clearly kind of stops
as soon as you feel strongly right and
you see I'm not like that like I can be
really passionate about something yeah I
mean really clear and focused in this
hatch or yes and I still admire that
like I so I so admire that I you know
yeah yeah what you have said lately is
so true that like stupidity is something
that you can change yeah if you're not
just if you're not like horribly
disabled or born with half a brain like
yeah you know doesn't mean it's easy to
say yes but it just shows that you say
passion and reason I can't seem to like
combine them when I'm feeling something
um but it is a choice it's something
that I I need to work on it I like the
challenge I do like I want to be
challenged and that's why I like being
with you like I know I I agree with you
afterwards like I'm like oh wow that was
stupid or like I said something stupid
and I regret it um and like
it's almost worse to because it's part
of the reason why I feel jealous of
other people is I'm like thinking they
might be more intelligent than me
sharper than me and then when I show
myself to not be sharp or not
quick-witted you know I feel good like
you sort of punish yourself yeah oh yeah
yeah I mean part of it is just
self-loathing yeah okay um well and as
you say you don't feel that way about
music even though you know you're not
back no no like I love I love watching
good musicians it's such a pleasure kind
of self-knowledge
detachment about music maybe I think so
I mean I think I think so I really do
but maybe music doesn't involve the same
passions well I mean like in the in your
last video you mentioned like you know
watching more pornography I'd like to
get more comfortable with the idea that
like other people enjoy sex too and it's
like like everybody does it's like you
know not everybody plays music but like
in the same way you know in the same way
things have a flute we all play I do
think that's something that for someone
like you in your situation might be good
advice yeah maybe for someone else to be
terrible place so yeah yeah of course we
can take it up in a sequel though then
we'll see you could see what happens all
right keep up yeah yeah well I mean
sorry I wish there would have been like
more of a clear flow with this video but
I appreciate you talking with me about
this and you know how important it is to
be appreciative of the other person and
I I appreciate that you take the time
out of the day to talk to me about these
issues um but yeah I mean I really think
that image of somebody working on their
garden while their house is on fire I
mean it can be implied in in two
different ways in this in this scenario
so like I mean part of the reason why my
house is on fire or especially it was
when we first got together is like I had
wasted a lot of time
I wasted a lot of my mental capacity
like I really thought years over years
yeah we don't say just that day or
something yeah oh yeah yeah but over
over yeah when I started University I
was bright-eyed bushy-tailed and
throughout the next year you know five
years five six years things just went
downhill and I was wasting my potential
and and after you finish University in a
lot of ways I got worse yeah doing
destructive things yeah to myself and to
others around me you were not positive
on I was not positively motivated and I
I think that in some ways you have to
think of your own house but you have to
think of other people's houses like this
analogy works in two ways like you know
imagining yourself as the gardener and
also imagining yourself as the neighbor
imagining yourself you're walking by you
you're you know your situation where you
know looking at yourself in from the
outsider's perspective and saying you
know you got to put out the fire you
gotta figure out figure out what are you
doing yeah I think you need to think
about other people actually genuinely be
happy for other people when they succeed
again yeah imagining the beautiful
people's lives are extremely intelligent
people's lives and how that's a struggle
I mean you know one one thing that
you've said is is that for you some
people imagine that it must be so easy
being intelligent being the most
intelligent person in a room in a
classroom right in a lecture hall but if
you actually think about it
it's pretty awful to being surrounded by
stupidity and it's really awful knowing
more than the professor about the topic
professor is giving a lecture
yeah it's horrible to sit there and
after yeah yeah yeah yeah well I mean so
you know what to put a pity phrase to it
you know seeing the sorrow in triumph
and you know
seeing the humanity and tragedy and
someone you know seeing that you know
there are winners and losers but it's
very very hard to be jealous of the
winner when you know the choices and
self-sacrifice and effort that wanted to
win it
yeah I don't want to be an Olympic
athlete yeah so I can never look at an
Olympic athlete and feel jealous that
and I don't want to be a model and so on
either so yeah and as much I think it's
impossible for me to really feel jealous
of people with a PhD and so on and so
forth but yeah obviously this is
something that primarily enters your
life in terms of human beauty yeah
that's where we have the least choice
that would make ourselves its to the
most extent left up to arbitrary and
capricious nature yeah keep it that
button